Here are a few well
established methods that
you can use to generate
word embeddings.
Word2vec by Google, which
initially popularized the
use of machine learning,
to generate word embeddings.
Word2vec, uses a
shallow neural network
to learn word embeddings.
It proposes two
model architectures,
continuous bag of words,
which is a simple but
efficient approach
that you will
implement this week.
The objective of the
model is to learn to
predict a missing word given
the surrounding words.
Continuous skip-gram, also known
as the skip-gram with
negative sampling,
which does the reverse of
the continuous bag
of words method.
The model learns to
predict the word
surrounding a given input word.
Global vectors or
glove by Stanford,
which involves
factorizing the logarithm
of the corpuses word
co-occurrence matrix,
which is similar to
the counter matrix
you've used before.
fastText by Facebook,
which is based on the
skip-gram model and takes into
account the structure of words by
representing words as an
n-gram of characters.
This enables the model to
support previously unseen words,
known as outer vocabulary words,
by inferring their embedding from
the sequence of
characters they are made
of and the
corresponding sequences
that it was initially trained on.
For example, it would create
similar embeddings
for kitty and kitten,
even if it had never seen
the word kitty before.
As kitty and kitten are
made of similar
sequences of characters.
Another benefit of fastText,
is that word embedding vectors
can be averaged together to
make vector representations
of phrases and sentences.
Next up, some more sophisticated
modeling approaches.
These methods use advanced
deep neural network
architectures,
to refine the representation of
the words meaning according
to their contexts.
In the previous models
a given word always has
the same embedding.
In these more advanced models,
the words have
different embeddings
depending on their context.
This adds supports for
polysemy or words with
similar meanings.
Such as the word plants,
which can refer to an
organism like a flower,
a factory or which
can be an adverb,
with yet more different meanings.
A few examples of
advanced models that generate
word embeddings are,
BERT or bidirectional encoder
representations from
transformers by Google,
ELMO for embeddings
from language models,
by the Allen Institute for AI or
GPT-2 or generative
pre-training 2 by Open AI.
If you want to use
these advanced methods,
you can find off the shelf
pre-trained models
on the Internet.
You can fine tune
these models using
your own corpus to
generate high-quality,
domain, specific word embeddings.
To recap, you now
have some tools in
your toolbox for creating
word embeddings,
including some pretty
sophisticated new models.
That's nice. Up next,
I will introduce the
continuous bag of words model,
that you'll be using for
this week's assignment.